**Victor Vasarly, Bridget Riley, Casey Reas, Josef Albers, and Andy Warhol Life's and their Op Art.

  Victor Vasarely is an internationally known and praised artist; widely accepted as a "grandfather" and leader of the op art movement.

  He was the leading figures in the development of geometrical abstraction, Hungarian-born artist Victor Vasarely was 
known as the "father of Op Art." That short-lived movement, born in the 1960s, was a direct result of the visual 
experimentation Vasarely had been engaged in since the 1930s.

   Born Vásárhelyi Gyozo on April 9, 1906 in Pécs, Hungary, he briefly studied medicine at university, but after two years 
 dedicated himself instead to painting. In the late 1920s, Vasarely enrolled at the Muhely Academy in Budapest, where the 
 syllabus was largely based on Walter Gropius’s Bauhaus school in Germany. After settling in Paris in 1930, Vasarely worked 
 as a graphic artist while creating many proto-Op Art works including Zebra (1937). The artist experimented in a style based 
 in Surrealism and Abstract Expressionism during the 1940s, before arriving at his hallmark checkerboard works. Op Art went 
 on to have a number of practitioners, including Bridget Riley and Yaacov Agam. The artist died at age 90 on March 15, 1997 
 in Paris, France.


   **Bridget Riley is best known for her black and white works within the Op Art movement. However, she produces works in 
color as well. Her work is iconic of the Op Art movement, and she is considered one of Op Art's most important and 
influential artist.
  
  In the late 60's, Riley and fellow artist and friend Peter Sedgley founded SPACE (Space Provision Artistic Cultural and   
Educational), a large affordable and open studio space for artists to work.


  Bridget Riley is a British artist known for her singular Op Art paintings. Melding clean lines, color arrangements, and 
geometric precision she creates optically compelling visual effects, as seen in her work Cataract 3 (1967). Riley’s use of 
gradients and variations in tone stems from her admiration for the Pointillist Georges Seurat. Born on April 24, 1931 in 
London, United Kingdom, she studied at Goldsmiths College from 1949 to 1952 and the Royal College of Art from 1952 to 1955. 
In the following years, the artist began experimenting with the color effects developed by Seurat in the 19th century, 
leading her to the practice for which she is now known. Today, Riley is often grouped along with other practitioners of Op 
Art such as Victor Vasarely and Richard Anuszkiewicz.


  **Casey Edwin Barker Reas, also known as C. E. B. Reas or Casey Reas, is an American artist whose conceptual, procedural 
and minimal artworks explore ideas through the contemporary lens of software. Reas is best known for having created, with 
Ben Fry, the Processing programming language. An artist whose conceptual, procedural and minimal art works explore ideas 
through software. Reas (with Ben Fry) is best known for having created the Processing programming language.

  Reas's software generated images are created by programmed instructions. The instructions are expressed in different media 
including natural language, machine code, and computer simulations, resulting in both dynamic and static images. Each 
translation reveals a different perspective on the process and combines with the others to produce continually evolving 
visual traces. Since 2012, Reas has incorporated broadcast images into his work, algorithmically distorting them to create 
abstractions that retain traces of their original, representational function.

  He has shown his work at the Whitney Museum of American Art's artport, Ars Electronica in Austria, ZKM in Germany, 
Transmediale in Berlin, GAFFTA in San Francisco, Uijeongbu International Digital Art Festival in Korea, the Danish Film 
Institute, bitforms gallery in New York and Seoul, IAMAS and ICC in Japan, the Microwave International Media Art Festival in 
Hong Kong, and the Sonar Festival in Barcelona.


  **Josef Albers worked as an Art Teacher in Germany at several different schools for about half a century. He served as 
faculty at the world renown Bauhaus, and then to the world renown Black Mountain College (and then later, Yale) after 
immigrating to the US after the Nazi Party closed Bauhaus during World War II.

  There are a fair number of his students who made names for themselves, including Op Artist Richard Anuszkiewucz. In 
addition to his contributions to Art Education, he is also renown for his own artist works- primarily his minimalist works 
of painting squares. Josef Albers was born in Bottrop, Westphalia, Germany in 1888. From 1905-8 he studied to become a 
teacher in Büren, and went on to teach children in primary schools around Westphalia from 1908 and 1913. At this time, he 
taught “everything — reading, writing and arithmetic”.

  During this period he realised that he wanted to specialise in teaching art, and enrolled in Berlin’s Königliche 
Kunstschule in 1913 with this in mind. He qualified as an art teacher in 1915.

  Over the next few years whilst teaching art, Albers developed as a figurative artist and printmaker. He furthered his 
studies first part-time at the Kunstgewerbeschule in Essen where he studied lithography and then at The Royal Bavarian Art 
Academy in Munich, where he studied drawing with Franz Stuck and attended Max Doerner‘s course in painting techniques.
Josef Albers famous quote "Color is fooling us all the time. All the time, like women do, you see, life is interesting".


  **Andy Warhol is often seen as the most iconic artist when it comes to genre of Pop Art. Even if you don't know his name, 
you've probably seen his work, or even one of his self portraits. Many of his works are widely known.

  Andy Warhol was a leading figure in the Pop Art movement. Like his contemporaries Roy Lichtenstein and Robert Rauschenberg, Warhol responded to mass-media culture of the 1960s. His silkscreens of cultural and consumer icons—including Marilyn Monroe, Elizabeth Taylor, Campbell’s Soup Cans, and Brillo Boxes—would make him one of the most famous artists of his generation.
  
   Though Warhol was a gay man, he kept much of his private life a secret, occasionally referencing his sexuality through 
art. This is perhaps most evident in his drawings of male nudes from the 1950s, and later in his film Sleep (1963), which 
portrays the poet John Giorno nude. The artist died tragically following complications from routine gall bladder surgery at 
the age of 58, on February 22, 1987 in New York, NY. After his death, the artist’s estate became The Andy Warhol Foundation 
and in 1994, a museum dedicated to the artist and his oeuvre opened in his native Pittsburgh.


All Information came from this website: http://www.artnet.com/. Just search up the artists name and you will recieve all the information needed about him.


  

